README.md, before:

*Warning: This plugin is not yet stabilized. Use to help me identify bugs, but it will be a few weeks before its fully stable.*

*Project status as of 5/27:*  Pretty solid, but a bit slow - can losslessly convert most major scenarios and can handle projects up to several thousand commits. Submodules in Git are not handled. See TODO.txt for full list of things I'm working on.


Hg-Git Mercurial Plugin
=======================

This is the Hg-Git plugin for Mercurial, adding the ability to push and pull to/from a Git server repository from Hg.  This means you can collaborate on Git based projects from Hg, or use a Git server as a collaboration point for a team with developers using both Git and Hg.

The Hg-Git plugin can convert commits/changesets losslessly from one system to another, so you can push via an Hg repository and another Hg client can pull it and their changeset node ids will be identical - Mercurial data does not get lost in translation.  It is intended that Hg users may wish to use this to collaborate even if no Git users are involved in the project, and it may even provide some advantages if you're using Bookmarks (see below).

Dependencies
============

This plugin is implemented entirely in Python - there are no Git binary dependencies, you do not need to have Git installed on your system.  There are in fact no external dependencies currently other than Mercurial.  The plugin is known to work on Hg versions 1.1 and 1.2.

Commands
=========

You can clone a Git repository from Hg by running `hg gclone [url]`.  It will create a directory appended with a '-hg', for example, if you were to run `hg gclone git://github.com/schacon/munger.git` it would clone the repository down into the directory 'munger-hg', then convert it to an Hg repository for you.

	hg gclone git://github.com/schacon/munger.git
	
If you are starting from an existing Hg repository, you have to setup a Git repository somewhere that you have push access to, add it as a Git remote and then run `hg gpush` from within your project.  For example:

	$ cd hg-git # (an Hg repository)
	$ hg gremote add origin git@github.com/schacon/hg-git.git
	$ hg push

This will convert all our Hg data into Git objects and push them up to the Git server.
	
Now that you have an Hg repository that can push/pull to/from a Git repository, you can fetch updates with `hg gfetch`.

	$ hg gfetch
	
That will pull down any commits that have been pushed to the server in the meantime and give you a new head that you can merge in.

Using hg-git to interact with a hg repository with git
=====================================================

You can create a local .git repository like this:

Editr the .hg/hgrc (or your ~/.hgrc if you want to make this the default):

    [git]
    intree=1

Then do the following from in the hg repository:

    $ hg gexport

This will create a .git repository in the working directory (alongside the .hg
directory) that you can interact with like any regular git repository. If you
have made commits in the git repository and want to convert them to hg commits,
first make sure the changes you want are on the master branch, then do:

    $ hg gimport

This will put your changes on top of the current hg tip.

Optionally you can change your hgrc to include an exportbranch statement:

    [git]
    intree=1
    exportbranch=refs/heads/from-hg

This will cause 'hg gexport' to update the 'from-hg' branch, instead of the
master branch, so that your changes will not be lost even if you work on the
master branch.

Hg Bookmarks Integration
========================

Hg-Git works will use your bookmarks if you have any or have the bookmarks extension enabled.  It will allow you to push your bookmarks up to the Git server as branches and will pull Git branches down and set them up as bookmarks if you want.

This is actually pretty cool, since you can use this extension to transfer your Hg bookmarks via the Git protocol, rather than having to scp them, as the Hg transfer protocol does not currently support transferring bookmarks.

Installing
==========

Clone this repository somewhere and make the 'extensions' section in your `~/.hgrc` file look something like this:

	[extensions]
	hgext.bookmarks =
	hgext.hg-git = [path-to]/hg-git

That will enable the Hg-Git extension for you.  The bookmarks section is not compulsory, but it makes some things a bit nicer for you.

Authors
========

* Scott Chacon <schacon@gmail.com> - main development
* Augie Fackler <durin42@gmail.com> - testing and moral support
* Sverre Rabbelier <sverre@rabbelier.nl> - gexport/gimport, mode and i18n stuff and misc fixes
* Dulwich Developers - most of this code depends on the awesome work they did.
 
Sponsorship
===========

GitHub let me (Scott) work on this full time for several days, which is why this got done at all.  If you're looking for a free Git host to push your open source Hg projects to, do try us out (http://github.com).

Commit message:

add section to README about fast-export

README.md, after:

*Warning: This plugin is not yet stabilized. Use to help me identify bugs, but it will be a few weeks before its fully stable.*

*Project status as of 5/27:*  Pretty solid, but a bit slow - can losslessly convert most major scenarios and can handle projects up to several thousand commits. Submodules in Git are not handled. See TODO.txt for full list of things I'm working on.


Hg-Git Mercurial Plugin
=======================

This is the Hg-Git plugin for Mercurial, adding the ability to push and pull to/from a Git server repository from Hg.  This means you can collaborate on Git based projects from Hg, or use a Git server as a collaboration point for a team with developers using both Git and Hg.

The Hg-Git plugin can convert commits/changesets losslessly from one system to another, so you can push via an Hg repository and another Hg client can pull it and their changeset node ids will be identical - Mercurial data does not get lost in translation.  It is intended that Hg users may wish to use this to collaborate even if no Git users are involved in the project, and it may even provide some advantages if you're using Bookmarks (see below).

Dependencies
============

This plugin is implemented entirely in Python - there are no Git binary dependencies, you do not need to have Git installed on your system.  There are in fact no external dependencies currently other than Mercurial.  The plugin is known to work on Hg versions 1.1 and 1.2.

Commands
=========

You can clone a Git repository from Hg by running `hg gclone [url]`.  It will create a directory appended with a '-hg', for example, if you were to run `hg gclone git://github.com/schacon/munger.git` it would clone the repository down into the directory 'munger-hg', then convert it to an Hg repository for you.

	hg gclone git://github.com/schacon/munger.git
	
If you are starting from an existing Hg repository, you have to setup a Git repository somewhere that you have push access to, add it as a Git remote and then run `hg gpush` from within your project.  For example:

	$ cd hg-git # (an Hg repository)
	$ hg gremote add origin git@github.com/schacon/hg-git.git
	$ hg push

This will convert all our Hg data into Git objects and push them up to the Git server.
	
Now that you have an Hg repository that can push/pull to/from a Git repository, you can fetch updates with `hg gfetch`.

	$ hg gfetch
	
That will pull down any commits that have been pushed to the server in the meantime and give you a new head that you can merge in.

Using hg-git to interact with a hg repository with git
=====================================================

You can create a local .git repository like this:

Editr the .hg/hgrc (or your ~/.hgrc if you want to make this the default):

    [git]
    intree=1

Then do the following from in the hg repository:

    $ hg gexport

This will create a .git repository in the working directory (alongside the .hg
directory) that you can interact with like any regular git repository. If you
have made commits in the git repository and want to convert them to hg commits,
first make sure the changes you want are on the master branch, then do:

    $ hg gimport

This will put your changes on top of the current hg tip.

Optionally you can change your hgrc to include an exportbranch statement:

    [git]
    intree=1
    exportbranch=refs/heads/from-hg

This will cause 'hg gexport' to update the 'from-hg' branch, instead of the
master branch, so that your changes will not be lost even if you work on the
master branch.

Speeding up the initial hg to git export
========================================

If you have a very recent git installed, you can use 'hg fast-export' in
combination with 'git fast-import' to greatly speed up the initial export. This
speedup results in an export taking half a minute, rather than 10 minutes, so if
you have a large repository to export, it might be worth the effort.

See the above section on how to set up your hgrc, and then do the following
instead of 'hg gexport':

    $ hg ginit
    $ hg fast-export | git fast-import
    $ hg gmarks
    $ hg gexport

The ginit command is to make sure that there is a git repository in the right
place, and the last 'hg gexport' is to export any tags and update all branches.
It will however use the export created by fast-export (because of the 'hg
gmarks' command), and should be near-instantanous.

Hg Bookmarks Integration
========================

Hg-Git works will use your bookmarks if you have any or have the bookmarks extension enabled.  It will allow you to push your bookmarks up to the Git server as branches and will pull Git branches down and set them up as bookmarks if you want.

This is actually pretty cool, since you can use this extension to transfer your Hg bookmarks via the Git protocol, rather than having to scp them, as the Hg transfer protocol does not currently support transferring bookmarks.

Installing
==========

Clone this repository somewhere and make the 'extensions' section in your `~/.hgrc` file look something like this:

	[extensions]
	hgext.bookmarks =
	hgext.hg-git = [path-to]/hg-git

That will enable the Hg-Git extension for you.  The bookmarks section is not compulsory, but it makes some things a bit nicer for you.

Authors
========

* Scott Chacon <schacon@gmail.com> - main development
* Augie Fackler <durin42@gmail.com> - testing and moral support
* Sverre Rabbelier <sverre@rabbelier.nl> - fast-export, gexport/gimport, mode and i18n stuff and misc fixes
* Dulwich Developers - most of this code depends on the awesome work they did.
 
Sponsorship
===========

GitHub let me (Scott) work on this full time for several days, which is why this got done at all.  If you're looking for a free Git host to push your open source Hg projects to, do try us out (http://github.com).
